README.md, before:

<div align="center">

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@qwen-code/qwen-code.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@qwen-code/qwen-code)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/QwenLM/qwen-code.svg)](./LICENSE)
[![Node.js Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/node-%3E%3D20.0.0-brightgreen.svg)](https://nodejs.org/)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@qwen-code/qwen-code.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@qwen-code/qwen-code)

<a href="https://trendshift.io/repositories/15287" target="_blank"><img src="https://trendshift.io/api/badge/repositories/15287" alt="QwenLM%2Fqwen-code | Trendshift" style="width: 250px; height: 55px;" width="250" height="55"/></a>

**An open-source AI agent that lives in your terminal.**

<a href="https://qwenlm.github.io/qwen-code-docs/zh/users/overview">中文</a> |
<a href="https://qwenlm.github.io/qwen-code-docs/de/users/overview">Deutsch</a> |
<a href="https://qwenlm.github.io/qwen-code-docs/fr/users/overview">français</a> |
<a href="https://qwenlm.github.io/qwen-code-docs/ja/users/overview">日本語</a> |
<a href="https://qwenlm.github.io/qwen-code-docs/ru/users/overview">Русский</a> |
<a href="https://qwenlm.github.io/qwen-code-docs/pt-BR/users/overview">Português (Brasil)</a>

</div>

Cosmic is LearnChain's distribution of Qwen Code for the terminal, optimized for [Qwen3-Coder](https://github.com/QwenLM/Qwen3-Coder). It helps you understand large codebases, automate tedious work, and ship faster.

> Cosmic website: https://cosmic.thelearnchain.com  
> Compatibility note: this distribution currently keeps the CLI command name as `qwen`.

![](https://gw.alicdn.com/imgextra/i1/O1CN01D2DviS1wwtEtMwIzJ_!!6000000006373-2-tps-1600-900.png)

## Why Cosmic (This Distribution)?

- **Multi-protocol, OAuth free tier**: use OpenAI / Anthropic / Gemini-compatible APIs, or sign in with OAuth for free-tier usage.
- **Open-source, co-evolving**: both the framework and the Qwen3-Coder model are open-source—and this distribution evolves with your team workflows.
- **Agentic workflow, feature-rich**: rich built-in tools (Skills, SubAgents) for a full agentic workflow and a Claude Code-like experience.
- **Terminal-first, IDE-friendly**: built for developers who live in the command line, with optional integration for VS Code, Zed, and JetBrains IDEs.

## Installation

### Quick Install (Recommended)

#### Linux / macOS

```bash
curl -fsSL https://qwen-code-assets.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/installation/install-qwen.sh | bash
```

#### Windows (Run as Administrator CMD)

```cmd
curl -fsSL -o %TEMP%\install-qwen.bat https://qwen-code-assets.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/installation/install-qwen.bat && %TEMP%\install-qwen.bat
```

> **Note**: It's recommended to restart your terminal after installation to ensure environment variables take effect.

### Manual Installation

#### Prerequisites

Make sure you have Node.js 20 or later installed. Download it from [nodejs.org](https://nodejs.org/en/download).

#### NPM

```bash
npm install -g @qwen-code/qwen-code@latest
```

#### Homebrew (macOS, Linux)

```bash
brew install qwen-code
```

## Quick Start

```bash
# Start Cosmic (interactive, command is still `qwen`)
qwen

# Then, in the session:
/help
/auth
```

On first use, you'll be prompted to sign in. You can run `/auth` anytime to switch authentication methods.

Example prompts:

```text
What does this project do?
Explain the codebase structure.
Help me refactor this function.
Generate unit tests for this module.
```

<details>
<summary>Click to watch a demo video</summary>

<video src="https://cloud.video.taobao.com/vod/HLfyppnCHplRV9Qhz2xSqeazHeRzYtG-EYJnHAqtzkQ.mp4" controls>
Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>

</details>

## Authentication

Qwen Code supports two authentication methods:

- **Qwen OAuth (recommended & free)**: sign in with your `qwen.ai` account in a browser.
- **API-KEY**: use an API key to connect to any supported provider (OpenAI, Anthropic, Google GenAI, Alibaba Cloud Bailian, and other compatible endpoints).

#### Qwen OAuth (recommended)

Start `qwen`, then run:

```bash
/auth
```

Choose **Qwen OAuth** and complete the browser flow. Your credentials are cached locally so you usually won't need to log in again.

> **Note:** In non-interactive or headless environments (e.g., CI, SSH, containers), you typically **cannot** complete the OAuth browser login flow. In these cases, please use the API-KEY authentication method.

#### API-KEY (flexible)

Use this if you want more flexibility over which provider and model to use. Supports multiple protocols:

- **OpenAI-compatible**: Alibaba Cloud Bailian, ModelScope, OpenAI, OpenRouter, and other OpenAI-compatible providers
- **Anthropic**: Claude models
- **Google GenAI**: Gemini models

For full details (including `modelProviders` configuration, `.env` file loading, environment variable priorities, and security notes), see the [authentication guide](https://qwenlm.github.io/qwen-code-docs/en/users/configuration/auth/).

## Usage

As an open-source terminal agent, you can use Qwen Code in four primary ways:

1. Interactive mode (terminal UI)
2. Headless mode (scripts, CI)
3. IDE integration (VS Code, Zed)
4. TypeScript SDK

#### Interactive mode

```bash
cd your-project/
qwen
```

Run `qwen` in your project folder to launch the interactive terminal UI. Use `@` to reference local files (for example `@src/main.ts`).

#### Headless mode

```bash
cd your-project/
qwen -p "your question"
```

Use `-p` to run Qwen Code without the interactive UI—ideal for scripts, automation, and CI/CD. Learn more: [Headless mode](https://qwenlm.github.io/qwen-code-docs/en/users/features/headless).

#### IDE integration

Use Qwen Code inside your editor (VS Code, Zed, and JetBrains IDEs):

- [Use in VS Code](https://qwenlm.github.io/qwen-code-docs/en/users/integration-vscode/)
- [Use in Zed](https://qwenlm.github.io/qwen-code-docs/en/users/integration-zed/)
- [Use in JetBrains IDEs](https://qwenlm.github.io/qwen-code-docs/en/users/integration-jetbrains/)

#### TypeScript SDK

Build on top of Qwen Code with the TypeScript SDK:

- [Use the Qwen Code SDK](./packages/sdk-typescript/README.md)

## Commands & Shortcuts

### Session Commands

- `/help` - Display available commands
- `/clear` - Clear conversation history
- `/compress` - Compress history to save tokens
- `/stats` - Show current session information
- `/bug` - Submit a bug report
- `/exit` or `/quit` - Exit Qwen Code

### Keyboard Shortcuts

- `Ctrl+C` - Cancel current operation
- `Ctrl+D` - Exit (on empty line)
- `Up/Down` - Navigate command history

> Learn more about [Commands](https://qwenlm.github.io/qwen-code-docs/en/users/features/commands/)
>
> **Tip**: In YOLO mode (`--yolo`), vision switching happens automatically without prompts when images are detected. Learn more about [Approval Mode](https://qwenlm.github.io/qwen-code-docs/en/users/features/approval-mode/)

## Configuration

Qwen Code can be configured via `settings.json`, environment variables, and CLI flags.

- **User settings**: `~/.qwen/settings.json`
- **Project settings**: `.qwen/settings.json`

See [settings](https://qwenlm.github.io/qwen-code-docs/en/users/configuration/settings/) for available options and precedence.

### Cosmic distribution defaults (shared in repo)

If you want everyone who clones this repo to see the same model list in `/model`, add your provider catalog to project settings at `.qwen/settings.json` and commit it.

Example:

```json
{
  "modelProviders": {
    "anthropic": [
      {
        "id": "claude-sonnet-4-5",
        "name": "Claude Sonnet 4.5",
        "envKey": "ANTHROPIC_API_KEY",
        "baseUrl": "https://api.anthropic.com"
      }
    ]
  },
  "security": {
    "auth": {
      "selectedType": "anthropic"
    }
  },
  "model": {
    "name": "claude-sonnet-4-5"
  }
}
```

Set the API key in environment variables, not in git-tracked files:

```powershell
$env:ANTHROPIC_API_KEY="your-key-here"
```

Note: this repository currently ignores `.qwen/` in `.gitignore`. Remove or override that ignore rule before committing `.qwen/settings.json`.

For Anthropic in this distribution, use the root API URL (`https://api.anthropic.com`) rather than appending `/v1` in `modelProviders`.

## Benchmark Results

### Terminal-Bench Performance

| Agent     | Model              | Accuracy |
| --------- | ------------------ | -------- |
| Qwen Code | Qwen3-Coder-480A35 | 37.5%    |
| Qwen Code | Qwen3-Coder-30BA3B | 31.3%    |

## Ecosystem

Looking for a graphical interface?

- [**AionUi**](https://github.com/iOfficeAI/AionUi) A modern GUI for command-line AI tools including Qwen Code
- [**Gemini CLI Desktop**](https://github.com/Piebald-AI/gemini-cli-desktop) A cross-platform desktop/web/mobile UI for Qwen Code

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues, check the [troubleshooting guide](https://qwenlm.github.io/qwen-code-docs/en/users/support/troubleshooting/).

To report a bug from within the CLI, run `/bug` and include a short title and repro steps.

## Connect with Us

- Discord: https://discord.gg/ycKBjdNd
- Dingtalk: https://qr.dingtalk.com/action/joingroup?code=v1,k1,+FX6Gf/ZDlTahTIRi8AEQhIaBlqykA0j+eBKKdhLeAE=&_dt_no_comment=1&origin=1

## Acknowledgments

This project is based on [Google Gemini CLI](https://github.com/google-gemini/gemini-cli). We acknowledge and appreciate the excellent work of the Gemini CLI team. Our main contribution focuses on parser-level adaptations to better support Qwen-Coder models.

Commit message:

feat: add soul style prompt guidance and document prompt override

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@qwen-code/qwen-code.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@qwen-code/qwen-code)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/QwenLM/qwen-code.svg)](./LICENSE)
[![Node.js Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/node-%3E%3D20.0.0-brightgreen.svg)](https://nodejs.org/)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@qwen-code/qwen-code.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@qwen-code/qwen-code)

<a href="https://trendshift.io/repositories/15287" target="_blank"><img src="https://trendshift.io/api/badge/repositories/15287" alt="QwenLM%2Fqwen-code | Trendshift" style="width: 250px; height: 55px;" width="250" height="55"/></a>

**An open-source AI agent that lives in your terminal.**

<a href="https://qwenlm.github.io/qwen-code-docs/zh/users/overview">中文</a> |
<a href="https://qwenlm.github.io/qwen-code-docs/de/users/overview">Deutsch</a> |
<a href="https://qwenlm.github.io/qwen-code-docs/fr/users/overview">français</a> |
<a href="https://qwenlm.github.io/qwen-code-docs/ja/users/overview">日本語</a> |
<a href="https://qwenlm.github.io/qwen-code-docs/ru/users/overview">Русский</a> |
<a href="https://qwenlm.github.io/qwen-code-docs/pt-BR/users/overview">Português (Brasil)</a>

</div>

Cosmic is LearnChain's distribution of Qwen Code for the terminal, optimized for [Qwen3-Coder](https://github.com/QwenLM/Qwen3-Coder). It helps you understand large codebases, automate tedious work, and ship faster.

> Cosmic website: https://cosmic.thelearnchain.com  
> Compatibility note: this distribution currently keeps the CLI command name as `qwen`.

![](https://gw.alicdn.com/imgextra/i1/O1CN01D2DviS1wwtEtMwIzJ_!!6000000006373-2-tps-1600-900.png)

## Why Cosmic (This Distribution)?

- **Multi-protocol, OAuth free tier**: use OpenAI / Anthropic / Gemini-compatible APIs, or sign in with OAuth for free-tier usage.
- **Open-source, co-evolving**: both the framework and the Qwen3-Coder model are open-source—and this distribution evolves with your team workflows.
- **Agentic workflow, feature-rich**: rich built-in tools (Skills, SubAgents) for a full agentic workflow and a Claude Code-like experience.
- **Terminal-first, IDE-friendly**: built for developers who live in the command line, with optional integration for VS Code, Zed, and JetBrains IDEs.

## Installation

### Quick Install (Recommended)

#### Linux / macOS

```bash
curl -fsSL https://qwen-code-assets.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/installation/install-qwen.sh | bash
```

#### Windows (Run as Administrator CMD)

```cmd
curl -fsSL -o %TEMP%\install-qwen.bat https://qwen-code-assets.oss-cn-hangzhou.aliyuncs.com/installation/install-qwen.bat && %TEMP%\install-qwen.bat
```

> **Note**: It's recommended to restart your terminal after installation to ensure environment variables take effect.

### Manual Installation

#### Prerequisites

Make sure you have Node.js 20 or later installed. Download it from [nodejs.org](https://nodejs.org/en/download).

#### NPM

```bash
npm install -g @qwen-code/qwen-code@latest
```

#### Homebrew (macOS, Linux)

```bash
brew install qwen-code
```

## Quick Start

```bash
# Start Cosmic (interactive, command is still `qwen`)
qwen

# Then, in the session:
/help
/auth
```

On first use, you'll be prompted to sign in. You can run `/auth` anytime to switch authentication methods.

Example prompts:

```text
What does this project do?
Explain the codebase structure.
Help me refactor this function.
Generate unit tests for this module.
```

<details>
<summary>Click to watch a demo video</summary>

<video src="https://cloud.video.taobao.com/vod/HLfyppnCHplRV9Qhz2xSqeazHeRzYtG-EYJnHAqtzkQ.mp4" controls>
Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>

</details>

## Authentication

Qwen Code supports two authentication methods:

- **Qwen OAuth (recommended & free)**: sign in with your `qwen.ai` account in a browser.
- **API-KEY**: use an API key to connect to any supported provider (OpenAI, Anthropic, Google GenAI, Alibaba Cloud Bailian, and other compatible endpoints).

#### Qwen OAuth (recommended)

Start `qwen`, then run:

```bash
/auth
```

Choose **Qwen OAuth** and complete the browser flow. Your credentials are cached locally so you usually won't need to log in again.

> **Note:** In non-interactive or headless environments (e.g., CI, SSH, containers), you typically **cannot** complete the OAuth browser login flow. In these cases, please use the API-KEY authentication method.

#### API-KEY (flexible)

Use this if you want more flexibility over which provider and model to use. Supports multiple protocols:

- **OpenAI-compatible**: Alibaba Cloud Bailian, ModelScope, OpenAI, OpenRouter, and other OpenAI-compatible providers
- **Anthropic**: Claude models
- **Google GenAI**: Gemini models

For full details (including `modelProviders` configuration, `.env` file loading, environment variable priorities, and security notes), see the [authentication guide](https://qwenlm.github.io/qwen-code-docs/en/users/configuration/auth/).

## Usage

As an open-source terminal agent, you can use Qwen Code in four primary ways:

1. Interactive mode (terminal UI)
2. Headless mode (scripts, CI)
3. IDE integration (VS Code, Zed)
4. TypeScript SDK

#### Interactive mode

```bash
cd your-project/
qwen
```

Run `qwen` in your project folder to launch the interactive terminal UI. Use `@` to reference local files (for example `@src/main.ts`).

#### Headless mode

```bash
cd your-project/
qwen -p "your question"
```

Use `-p` to run Qwen Code without the interactive UI—ideal for scripts, automation, and CI/CD. Learn more: [Headless mode](https://qwenlm.github.io/qwen-code-docs/en/users/features/headless).

#### IDE integration

Use Qwen Code inside your editor (VS Code, Zed, and JetBrains IDEs):

- [Use in VS Code](https://qwenlm.github.io/qwen-code-docs/en/users/integration-vscode/)
- [Use in Zed](https://qwenlm.github.io/qwen-code-docs/en/users/integration-zed/)
- [Use in JetBrains IDEs](https://qwenlm.github.io/qwen-code-docs/en/users/integration-jetbrains/)

#### TypeScript SDK

Build on top of Qwen Code with the TypeScript SDK:

- [Use the Qwen Code SDK](./packages/sdk-typescript/README.md)

## Commands & Shortcuts

### Session Commands

- `/help` - Display available commands
- `/clear` - Clear conversation history
- `/compress` - Compress history to save tokens
- `/stats` - Show current session information
- `/bug` - Submit a bug report
- `/exit` or `/quit` - Exit Qwen Code

### Keyboard Shortcuts

- `Ctrl+C` - Cancel current operation
- `Ctrl+D` - Exit (on empty line)
- `Up/Down` - Navigate command history

> Learn more about [Commands](https://qwenlm.github.io/qwen-code-docs/en/users/features/commands/)
>
> **Tip**: In YOLO mode (`--yolo`), vision switching happens automatically without prompts when images are detected. Learn more about [Approval Mode](https://qwenlm.github.io/qwen-code-docs/en/users/features/approval-mode/)

## Configuration

Qwen Code can be configured via `settings.json`, environment variables, and CLI flags.

- **User settings**: `~/.qwen/settings.json`
- **Project settings**: `.qwen/settings.json`

See [settings](https://qwenlm.github.io/qwen-code-docs/en/users/configuration/settings/) for available options and precedence.

### Prompt personality and behavior

For this Cosmic distribution, the primary assistant character/behavior prompt is defined in:

- `packages/core/src/core/prompts.ts`

This includes the "Tone and Style (Your Soul)" section used to shape assistant behavior.

You can also override the system prompt at runtime with:

- `.qwen/system.md` (project-level override file)
- `QWEN_SYSTEM_MD` environment variable:
  - set to `1`/`true` to load `.qwen/system.md`
  - set to an explicit file path to load that file

### Cosmic distribution defaults (shared in repo)

If you want everyone who clones this repo to see the same model list in `/model`, add your provider catalog to project settings at `.qwen/settings.json` and commit it.

Example:

```json
{
  "modelProviders": {
    "anthropic": [
      {
        "id": "claude-sonnet-4-5",
        "name": "Claude Sonnet 4.5",
        "envKey": "ANTHROPIC_API_KEY",
        "baseUrl": "https://api.anthropic.com"
      }
    ]
  },
  "security": {
    "auth": {
      "selectedType": "anthropic"
    }
  },
  "model": {
    "name": "claude-sonnet-4-5"
  }
}
```

Set the API key in environment variables, not in git-tracked files:

```powershell
$env:ANTHROPIC_API_KEY="your-key-here"
```

Note: this repository currently ignores `.qwen/` in `.gitignore`. Remove or override that ignore rule before committing `.qwen/settings.json`.

For Anthropic in this distribution, use the root API URL (`https://api.anthropic.com`) rather than appending `/v1` in `modelProviders`.

## Benchmark Results

### Terminal-Bench Performance

| Agent     | Model              | Accuracy |
| --------- | ------------------ | -------- |
| Qwen Code | Qwen3-Coder-480A35 | 37.5%    |
| Qwen Code | Qwen3-Coder-30BA3B | 31.3%    |

## Ecosystem

Looking for a graphical interface?

- [**AionUi**](https://github.com/iOfficeAI/AionUi) A modern GUI for command-line AI tools including Qwen Code
- [**Gemini CLI Desktop**](https://github.com/Piebald-AI/gemini-cli-desktop) A cross-platform desktop/web/mobile UI for Qwen Code

## Troubleshooting

If you encounter issues, check the [troubleshooting guide](https://qwenlm.github.io/qwen-code-docs/en/users/support/troubleshooting/).

To report a bug from within the CLI, run `/bug` and include a short title and repro steps.

## Connect with Us

- Discord: https://discord.gg/ycKBjdNd
- Dingtalk: https://qr.dingtalk.com/action/joingroup?code=v1,k1,+FX6Gf/ZDlTahTIRi8AEQhIaBlqykA0j+eBKKdhLeAE=&_dt_no_comment=1&origin=1

## Acknowledgments

This project is based on [Google Gemini CLI](https://github.com/google-gemini/gemini-cli). We acknowledge and appreciate the excellent work of the Gemini CLI team. Our main contribution focuses on parser-level adaptations to better support Qwen-Coder models.
